<HTML>
<HEAD>
   <TITLE>Fuji - 1st trip</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF">
<P>July (11th + 12th) 1998. <FONT SIZE="+3" COLOR="#FF0000">Mt. Fuji
Trip No. 1 </FONT> (organised by Ichiko Tanabe)</P>

<P>&nbsp;</P>

<P><U>Description</U></P>

<P>&nbsp;</P>

<P>&nbsp;There are 2 descriptions of climbing Fuji-san. Archana Singh
and Joe Izen.</P>

<P>&nbsp;</P>

<P>

<HR>

</P>

<P><FONT SIZE="+3"><B>I made it..... TO MOUNT FUJI!! </B></FONT></P>

<P>&nbsp;</P>

<P><FONT SIZE="+3"><B>Archana Singh</B></FONT></P>

<P>&nbsp;</P>

<P>Let me narrate in in as few (phew!) words as possible.</P>

<P>Many thanks to Ichiko for doing the organising this unforgetable
trip. </P>

<P>The club is a nice bunch of people from all over the world -
Japan, US, UK, Canada,</P>

<P>Bulgaria, France, Belgium, Italy, Ireland, Australia and so on.
Last week</P>

<P>13 of us headed for Fuji on Saturday, the 11th of July. Climbing
Fuji has</P>

<P>been popular for many centuries. Back in the old days, when this
was more</P>

<P>of a pilgrimage by Buddhist monks than a hiker's attraction,
climbers</P>

<P>would start at the base of the mountain and stop at some shrines
on the</P>

<P>way up. Today we don't have to spend so much time and energy, and
can go</P>

<P>by bus upto the 'Fifth Station' at about 2300 meters. The mountain
is</P>

<P>divided into ten 'stations', most of which have some huts to stay
in or to</P>

<P>sell you food, drinks or souvenirs. So we took a bus from Tokyo to
the 5th</P>

<P>station (called Kawaguchiko) after which the only way to go up is
to</P>

<P>climb. There are big souvenir shops at 5th station. The best
selling</P>

<P>souvenir is the Fuji walking stick which you can buy for 1000 yen,
and</P>

<P>then at every station they burn a stamp on the stick (for yen 200
and 300</P>

<P>yen at the summit) as a proof that you have been there. The stick
has two</P>

<P>bells attached to it and an optional Japanese Flag (for 300 yen
more).</P>

<P>After walking a few minutes I had to remove the bells as they were
causing</P>

<P>a lot of distraction. Before starting we checked our fuel level. I
can't</P>

<P>walk on a full stomach so I just had some coffee but others had
ice-creams</P>

<P>and food. We knew we wouldn't be able to eat them for next two
days. Food</P>

<P>and drinks are available on the huts at every station but they
are</P>

<P>exorbitantly priced - 400 yen for a 100 ml can of drink and 800
yen for a</P>

<P>frugal amount of ramen (noodles). No free drinking water or any
kind of</P>

<P>water (even for washing your face) is available on Fuji. So, with
3 liters</P>

<P>of water and two days of food, clothing, camera, etc. my rucksack
must</P>

<P>have weighed over 10 Kgs. Thank goodness we didn't have to carry
sleeping</P>

<P>bags. Many climbers go up to the 7th or 8th station see the sun
rise from</P>

<P>the sea of clouds and return.  We started from the 5th station
around</P>

<P>11:30 and reached the 8th station at about sunset at 6:45 PM. The
sky was</P>

<P>covered with bright, silvery and amber clouds  -in various  shapes
and</P>

<P>shades of colors. Just too seductive to photographers - who had to
ignore</P>

<P>the demands of their tired body and hungry stomach to catch those
moments</P>

<P>before the sunset in their cameras. My camera film got over faster
than</P>

<P>I'd expected and I had to buy another film at the cost of 1500 yen
from a</P>

<P>shop on top of the Fuji. I felt sad paying so heavily for my sin
of</P>

<P>forgetfulness. But the lovely pictures that have come out of that
evening</P>

<P>have more than made up for it. Then we thought of re fueling
ourselves for</P>

<P>the next day. Most of the people in our club are vegetarian. Don't
be so</P>

<P>surprised. The trend for veggie has caught up on a large scale in
the west</P>

<P>and US (but unfortunately not in Japan). The only meal available
in the</P>

<P>hut was 'Kare' - Japanese version of beef curry with rice. The
amount</P>

<P>being served was too frugal to survive after hours of commuting
and</P>

<P>hiking. We knew this already - thanks to our considerate organizer
Ichiko.</P>

<P> We unpacked the food we had carried.. While dining we decided
about the</P>

<P>next and the most difficult course of the walk - from 8th station
to the</P>

<P>top of the Fuji (10th station) where is located its famed crater.
If we</P>

<P>had to reach there at the time of sunrise (4:30) we'd have to
start at</P>

<P>least before around midnight, which meant less than 3 hours of
sleep. And</P>

<P>the people were so exhausted that all they wanted to do was to
sleep - me</P>

<P>too! But then my background process was active(thankfully) and it
reminded</P>

<P>me that this may be my last chance to see the sun-rise from the
top of</P>

<P>Fuji- my favorite mountain! There were only 3 brave souls in the
whole</P>

<P>group who decided to start by 12:30. Howa (a gentleman from
Bulgaria),</P>

<P>Ichiko and myself.  The majority of the group decided to see the
sunrise</P>

<P>from the hut itself and then to walk to the top. This would give
them</P>

<P>several more hours of sleep (until 4:00 am) before walking.
Another small</P>

<P>group  quite confident of walking skills decided to start at 1:30
and make</P>

<P>it rather fast to the top. The beds in the huts have to be shared
in the</P>

<P>season. It is also probably the only way to keep the dormitory
warm as</P>

<P>there is no heating available and temperatures reach subzero in
the night.</P>

<P>We were lucky as  I was told that during this peak season 4 people
may</P>

<P>have to share a futon (Japanese style bedding on the  floor). We
were</P>

<P>lucky to share just one between two. I was worried I may not be
able to</P>

<P>wake up in time, but the rustling sound of the plastic covered
miniature</P>

<P>pillows was enough to keep me awake, till Ichiko came to formally
wake me</P>

<P>up at about midnight. Then I went out to use the nearly open air
toilet</P>

<P>and I was frozen with cold. I came back shivering not just because
of the</P>

<P>cold but also at the thought of climbing up in freezing
temperature in</P>

<P>just a light warm sweater that I brought to keep the weight of my
rucksack</P>

<P>minimum. I put on every single clothing that I had in my back pack
- 3</P>

<P>shirts, a sweater and a windsheeter, a pair of shorts and
trousers. I felt</P>

<P>I'd just survive. I actually don't remember now how it was like
walking</P>

<P>from 8th station to the top because I was in a sort of daze. Howa
and</P>

<P>Ichiko managed to chat whenever we stopped for breath. We did stop
quite</P>

<P>often in the beginning but not much after the 9th station. We
didn't need</P>

<P>to, because people were walking too slow and nobody seemed to much
have</P>

<P>much strength to walk much faster.  We at least had rest (??) in
the hut,</P>

<P>but many people walk  from the 5th station to top without stopping
to rest</P>

<P>in the huts. The oxygen level gets very low from 8th station. It
is said</P>

<P>that at this level on flights the oxygen masks automatically pop
up . I</P>

<P>saw people using oxygen cans but none of us felt the need for it.
As long</P>

<P>as we walked - we were warm. Everytime we stopped for rest, we
felt cold.</P>

<P>There was quite a bit of snow on the route. We had all been
cautioned to</P>

<P>bring our  torch. Like us hundreds of people were walking with
their</P>

<P>torches. From top it looked quite interesting to watch a long
trail of</P>

<P>people illuminated with their torches. There were many kinds of
torches -</P>

<P>the one that can be worn around your head, the one that can be
hung around</P>

<P>your neck, ones that can be fixed in your pocket, etc. It being
almost a</P>

<P>full moon night plus hundreds of torch lights - there was too much
light</P>

<P>and I put away my torch. It was too much of a balancing exercise -
holding</P>

<P>the torch while climbing big rocks thru chains - yeah there are
chains and</P>

<P>ropes to provide hold to climb upon the big, steep and slippery
rocks -</P>

<P>which are in abundance on this route. Soon I realized that my
hands were</P>

<P>chilled even though I was wearing gloves. They were kept warm by
the</P>

<P>glowing torch. So, I held my torch again. Then we saw a flight of
stairs</P>

<P>going upto like what seemed to be the 10th station but we rejected
the</P>

<P>idea, as we'd been thru similar situations twice earlier when it
almost</P>

<P>looked like we'd reached but we hadn't. Moreover we had finished
only 3</P>

<P>hours of walking against the expected time of 4 hours. BUT! - we
had</P>

<P>REACHED!! - it was difficult to believe! There were so many
people</P>

<P>strolling around. There were huts to provide you hot and sumptuous
meals,</P>

<P>gift shops and vending machines - it looked like a holiday bazaar.
We were</P>

<P>an hour ahead of the schedule and we had plenty of time before
sunrise. We</P>

<P>decided to celebrate our feat with hot and steaming ramen. When we
went</P>

<P>out to catch a glimpse of the morning sky at around 4:20, the
place was</P>

<P>too crowded with people already positioned with their cameras. So
we went</P>

<P>a little ahead and found a more secluded spot. I was in an
entranced state</P>

<P>of mind at the beautiful sight of the Sun rising above the horizon
- and</P>

<P>standing on the top of the summit at the height of 3770 meters
made me</P>

<P>feel like I was on top of the world!  For the first time I see the
beauty</P>

<P>of a 'Cloud with a silver lining'! Even if I try in best of my
linguistic</P>

<P>abilities I don't have words to describe that heavenly
land(sky)scape. May</P>

<P>be my pictures will give a hint of what it was like. We strolled
around</P>

<P>the crater after the sunrise and came back to the hut to wait for
the</P>

<P>other groups. There was one more battle left. Had it not been for
the many</P>

<P>travel accounts that I had read (thanks to internet), I sure would
have</P>

<P>fainted to know  that where we were was not the official summit
of</P>

<P>Fuji-San. For that we had to walk past the crater and reach there
in about</P>

<P>30 minutes. There were interesting volcanic sights on the way. We
also</P>

<P>collected some stones from there to take back as sovenirs -
despite the</P>

<P>announcement (in Japanese) that we can not take anything from
Fuji. The</P>

<P>conical shaped crater gives a worn out look - its also broken on
its</P>

<P>edges. If I have to compare it - I think I've seen a better
looking and</P>

<P>more recently formed but smaller conical  peak in Fukushima - on
Mount</P>

<P>Azuma. In Fuji-san, I saw a few people going into the crater and I
felt</P>

<P>like doing it myself, but its risky. Once 5 people died due to
poisonous</P>

<P>gas leaking from it. We chose  to climb down via Gotemba trail -
covered</P>

<P>with loosely formed lava stones. Coming down was (phew!) the
toughest part</P>

<P>of the hike for me. By this time all  of my energy, enthusiasm,
excitement</P>

<P>and motivation wore out. The last time I went for hiking, my ankle
got</P>

<P>twisted and bent, and kept hurting for a month. This time I didn't
want to</P>

<P>push myself too hard, but we couldn't help going very fast. The 
trail is</P>

<P>so cushy that your feet sink down in the lava stuff by about a
foot and so</P>

<P>steep that you walk down one step and you go sliding down by 5
steps. Now</P>

<P>I know why everybody keep advising to wear gaiters. Our shoes got
filled</P>

<P>with lava stones which made walking even more difficult. This
route is</P>

<P>perhaps not very popular among tourists, as we hardly saw anybody
except</P>

<P>for some who seemed like crossbreeds of  hikers and joggers as
they  were</P>

<P>jogging up and down that difficult trail leading to the cinder
cone. After</P>

<P>walking for an hour the weather got worse. We were enveloped by
clouds and</P>

<P>mist and couldn't see anything ahead of us. We kept walking and
walking</P>

<P>and walking .....for about 3 more hours.  Finally it came to an
end and we</P>

<P>just made it to the 5th station at Gotemba at the time of the last
bus at</P>

<P>3:00pm. According to a Japanese saying "the one who never climbs
to Fuji</P>

<P>is a fool and the one who does more than once is twice as fool!".
But I</P>

<P>would like to climb to Fuji Yama again! I am quite infamous for
being</P>

<P>foolish but this time  I'll probably escape from being labeled as
one as</P>

<P>I'm returning to India for good next month. Yes - I'm planning to
take</P>

<P>back my Fuji walking stick to India as my most precious souvenir -
with</P>

<P>all the proofs stamped on it - some quite specific like the one to
prove</P>

<P>that you reached there at the time of Sunrise. I forgot to mention
a most</P>

<P>interesting thing. There is a post office on the summit - along
with a</P>

<P>shrine and a weather station. This post office opens only during
official</P>

<P>hiking season of Fuji from July 1st to August 31st. Guess what are
the</P>

<P>modes of transportation? I had read earlier that the only two
modes of</P>

<P>transportation to the top are helicopters and backpacks. But we
discovered</P>

<P>the third - a bulldozer carrying parcels up. In the post office
you can</P>

<P>buy picture postcards and post them free of cost. I did that
quite</P>

<P>apprehensively as I was afraid that my parents would probably not
believe</P>

<P>that a mountain which can have a postoffice on top can be so
difficult to</P>

<P>climb. They however do not know that if its not for
their(Japanese)</P>

<P>concern to preserve the nature on Fuji, there would probably have
been</P>

<P>bullet trains running on Fuji by now! </P>

<P>&nbsp;</P>

<P>

<HR>

</P>

<P><FONT SIZE="+4"><B>Fuji !</B></FONT></P>

<P>&nbsp;</P>

<P><FONT SIZE="+4"><B>Joe Izen</B></FONT></P>

<P>&nbsp;</P>

<P>Hi Everyone,</P>

<P>   My trip with Steve a day earlier was also fine.  Thanks to
Ichiko for</P>

<P>sharing  information, especially about travel connections.  We
started</P>

<P>climbing from Kawaguchi-ko 5th stage around 6pm on friday.  It was
a cold,</P>

<P>rainy, blustery climb.  We did it slowlt, taking time to shelter
under</P>

<P>various stage awnings during the worst of the rain.  We saw many
people</P>

<P>who were not properly prepared for the weather.  The only problem
hiking</P>

<P>at night were the damn lights.  The sky was plenty bright, but
then</P>

<P>someone would come along with a flashlight and disturb our
dark</P>

<P>adaptation, or we'd turn the corner and get blinded by the next
stage up. </P>

<P>Umbrellas helped block out the worst of the lights.</P>

<P>&nbsp;</P>

<P>   We got to the crater around 4am, just as the weather cleared. 
We saw</P>

<P>some beatiful sky colors at dawn, but didn't actually see the sun
crossing</P>

<P>the horizon.  The red rocks were spectacular when lit by the early
morning</P>

<P>sun.  The morning was mostly sunny, but cold (39F) and windy at
the top.</P>

<P>We came down to Gotembaguchi too.  A longer route, but well worth
it for</P>

<P>the absence of tour groups or huts trying to sell stuff on the
way.  I</P>

<P>liked plunging through the cinders on the way down, but then I had
gaiters</P>

<P>too.  Coming down the cinder cone was like walking on another
planet.   We</P>

<P>descended through sparse cloud, so we had continuous wisps of
cloud</P>

<P>blowing along the ground past us.  It was definitely a longer
descent.  I</P>

<P>wouldn't recommend an ascent from Gotenba-guchi - better to come
down that</P>

<P>way.</P>

<P>&nbsp;</P>

<P>   The connections from Gotenba guichi 5th stage were extremely
convenient.</P>

<P>We took the noon bus saturday to the train station and caught a
train back</P>

<P>to Tokyo right away.  1 change was required to get to tokyo, then
the</P>

<P>Yamanote line to get to Ueno.  In Gotenba, the ticket seller had
not heard</P>

<P>of Hitachi no Ushiku, but when I told him it was a new station and
showed</P>

<P>it to him on a schedule, he found it in his computer and generated
the</P>

<P>tickets.</P>

<P>&nbsp;</P>

<P>Joe</P>

<P>&nbsp;</P>

<P>

<HR>

&nbsp;</P>

<P><U>Assorted Pictures</U></P>

<P>&nbsp;</P>

<P>&nbsp;</P>

<P></P>
</BODY>
</HTML>


<IMG SRC="http://geo.yahoo.com/serv?s=76000022&t=949478988" WIDTH=1 HEIGHT=1>
<!-- <SERVICE NAME="toto"> --><SCRIPT LANGUAGE="javascript">window.open('http://geocities.yahoo.com/toto?s=76000022', '_geo_toto', 'width=515,height=125');</SCRIPT><!-- </SERVICE> -->